# Determinants of Weekly Working Hours Across Occupations
## Author: Michael Zhao, Max Belykh, Bo Yang, and Huanzhe Zhan
## Description: This project focuses on using linear regression to observe the causal relation between working hours and different factors. The project is based on Python and uses IPUMS data. 
## Goal: Our goal is to examine how citizenship, gender, occupation, state, and family composition influence working hours, in order to enhance our understanding of participants' labor market behavior. In particular, we are interested in examining how these variables affect the number of hours worked and if specific populations are more inclined to longer or shorter working hours. This issue is set within the global context of contemporary labor markets characterized by the interplay of economic, sociocultural, and political factors that dictate the work – life balance. Dismissing the importance of work hours is economically counterproductive, socially conservative, and regressive. In addition, work hours differ among certain demographic groups due to the availability of employment, family responsibilities, social attitudes toward gender, and immigration rules. Through this analysis, we strive to offer insights for formulating policy geared towards creating discrimination-free laws in the labor market, fostering inclusive workplaces, and making family and career choices. Advances in understanding work participation disparities, workforce policies, and economic equity will require grappling with these dynamics. To substantiate this inquiry are studies of the labor market, employment indicators, and economic theories of social inequality and work-life balance, which help contextualize and validate the findings
